---
title: Conquering 2020
subtitle: "First Blog Post: A Reflection"
date: 11/17/2020
id: 01
---

As everybody knows, 2020 has been a tough year for everyone, myself included. In February, I was already looking forward to my graduation from Georgia Tech, a dream not only for me, but for my parents as well. For a family of immigrants, this event is special as it seems to hold the meaning of achievement, desire, and sacrifice, and is ultimately one of the things that completes the immigrants' "American Dream". So, having had this meaningful moment ripped apart from me hurt terribly. Not to mention that I had already secured a job offer at Manhattan Associates as a Software Analyst, that still has yet to call me about a start date since informed of my deferment. I "graduated" in May having already lost my first job before even getting started.

I remember being extremely bitter about everything that was occurring to me. But then it hit me: being bitter all the time would not reverse anything that had happened to me. Thus, I changed my mindset and realized that this was the perfect opportunity to refine my craft. I started taking several [udemy courses](https://www.udemy.com/user/allan-serna-3/), primarily in React and Redux, and before I knew it, I received an invitation to work temporarily with a young start-up called [Scholars](https://hirescholars.com/) while I found a full-time position.

At Scholars, I worked on several high-level features that helped enrich the application (more information about each of the features can be found [here](https://aeserna.com/projects/scholars/)). While I was there, the platform successfully acquired deals with top clients like Robinhood and Shopify, so it was a great experience to deliver features that ultimately led to successful business deals for the start-up. I eventually received an offer to continue full-time at Scholars but ended up receiving a greater counter-offer from my current position. Nonetheless, it is perhaps the most valuable experience of my young career as it required me to quickly adapt to a large code base that I was unfamiliar with, understand the code structure (especially the way the Redux store was organized), and was my first exposure to React Hooks (v16), TailwindCSS, Firebase, and several additional softwares that were integrated into the platform.

A recommendation by [Evan Deere](https://www.linkedin.com/in/evandeere), CTO of Scholars

_"Allan was able to quickly jump into the Scholars platform and add high-level features. He has proved to be a reliable developer with a great understanding for React and Redux. His programming skills, matched with his enthusiasm, would make a great addition to any team!"_

By the end of June, I was (and still am) super excited by the start-up world because of how much I was learning so I decided to take on a second role concurrently with another young start-up called [TallySight](https://tallysight.com/). At TallySight, I was responsible for implementing many of the platform's most popular features during its revamping process (more information about my contribution can be found [here](https://aeserna.com/projects/tallysight/)), my favorite one being the social media image generator that still populates much of twitter when you [search "tallysight" in the search bar](https://twitter.com/search?q=tallysight&src=typed_query). I learned a lot during my time there, specifically about the importance of code organization, especially during an entire revamp (basic react -> next.js + react), code reviews, and it was my first exposure to Mongo, Redis, TypeScript, and Next.js. During my time there we gained partnerships with major organizations in the Sports Media world, like Sports Illustrated and ESPN.

A recommendation by [Masheed Ahadi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/masheed), CTO of TallySight

_"Allan is a talented and bright engineer that not only was a pleasure to work with everyday but has an amazing level of drive you rarely see in people. He was an incredible addition to our engineering team and was able to quickly execute and ship several high-impact features to help scale our product. Allan jumped right in to take on any task and was quickly able to grasp concepts and learn new technologies on the fly. He works extremely hard to become a better and better engineer, and it's been a pleasure to work with him and watch him grow over the past several months. I'm confident that he can tackle any problem thrown his way, and recommend him to any team without reservation. I would love for the opportunity to work with Allan to join my team again!"_

My time with both start-ups was eventually interrupted with an offer I could not deny from [Michaels](https://www.michaels.com/). Michaels is in the process of restrategizing their business operations, and reallocating resources to a new and exciting platform that is designed to disrupt the ecommerce industry and challenge competitors like Amazon. This platform will be primarily developed in React so when I interviewed with the CIO of Michaels, [Hsiao Wang](https://investors.michaels.com/corporate-governance/management-team), he was more than happy to offer me a position after reeviewing my previous work. Therefore, at the moment, I am a Software Development Engineer at Michaels where I will be working primarily in React and Redux, as well as, technologies like Tensorflow, Hadoop, and Spark, amongst others. It is still very early on since I began so I cannot talk much about what I have accomplished, but without a doubt, I hope to be able to update this blog post with a recommendation from Mr. Wang in the future.

What was the purpose of writing all of this? To brag about myself? To get on a pedastal and proclaim how great I am? A little (I hope to write yearly reflections like this to reflect upon over the course of my career). See, it was not until I reflected upon this year that I realized how much I was able to accomplish even during a pandemic. It taught me the importance of how a _change in mindset_ can turn into a change of opportunity, growth, and outcome. Who knows what I would be doing right now had I not taken the initiative to be better even in these circumstances back in May; I learned so much and reignited my desire to learn, I found a job that suits my career goals, and have never felt so empowered to take on challenges. Even after stating all of these accomplishments I've had in 2020, still often times, I find myself wondering if I am ever doing enough, because I know I am capable of more. That is why I challenge you, even as 2021 is on the horizon — if you have not already, change the mindset. Succombing to our environments is perhaps the number one killer of personal empowerment. Don't succomb to your environment, let your environment succomb to you. Here's to conquering 2021.

Thank you for reading,

_-Allan_
